chore(blog): annual review (#2549)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/2023-summary.md

---
title: "Annual Review: State of AsyncAPI Initiative 2023"

> date: 2024-01-18T06:00:00+01:00

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-01-29T06:00:00+01:00
```

type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
cover: /img/posts/2023-summary/blog-banner-2023.webp
authors:
  - name: Thulisile Sibanda
    photo: /img/avatars/thulieblack.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/v-thulisile-sibanda/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Manager
excerpt: '2023 Year in Review'
featured: true
---

It's almost unbelievable that we are in 2024. And if you are reading this, Happy New Year to you and your loved ones. Continuing the tradition, we look at how the community has grown over the last 365 days and look forward to our next phase.

> If you are curious about our past achievements, [please read the previous summary](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/2022-summary).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are curious about our past achievements, please [read the previous 2022 AsyncAPI summary](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/2022-summary).
```

Remember that accessibility in anchor text means clarifying where a link takes you. "Please read the previous summary" doesn't give context and forces the screenreader user to click the link to figure out the content.

## Community Metrics

> What better way to reflect on the past year than with numbers? This is the most significant way to gauge our growth and measure our visible impact as an open-source community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What better way to reflect on the past year than with numbers? Data is the most significant way to gauge our growth and measure our visible impact as an open-source community.
```

An unclear antecedent (i.e., `this`) occurs when a pronoun starts a sentence and refers back to a vague idea rather than to an actual noun or explicit statement.

### Slack

> As of 2024, we are currently sitting at an overall total of **4,471** members in the AsyncAPI workspace. This is where all our community activities happen, from communication to sharing updates and helping contributors and new adopters for the AsyncAPI spec and tools. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of 2024, we are currently at an overall total of **4,471** members in the AsyncAPI workspace. The Slack workspace is our primary communication medium, from communication updates to helping contributors and new adopters onboard with the AsyncAPI spec and tools. 
```

We're talking about the AsyncAPI Slack workspace, right? `"This is where all our community activities happen"` is incorrect; community activities are streams, in-person events, etc. Slack is not where our community activities happen. Slack is, however, **our primary medium of communication.**

In 2023, we had 1488 people joining our workspace:

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/new-users-joining-per-year.webp"
/>

> Below are our top 5 members who joined the community in 2023 and have been the most active among other newcomers. As a community, we are proud of their contributions as part of our Mentorship programs and even keeping us entertained with memes 😀.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are our top 5 members who joined the community in 2023 and have been the most active among other newcomers. As a community, we are proud of their contributions to our Mentorship programs. They even keep us entertained with memes 😀.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/Top-5-members.webp"
/>

Additionally, our weekly activity continues to grow as we run different mentorship programs and initiatives that bring traction to our community.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/slack-activity.webp"
/>

### Social Media 

> Social media is a medium we use for sharing news and updates around our community. We don't use it for marketing purposes but mainly for communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use social media to communicate news and updates around our community. We don't use it for marketing.
```

> And honestly, I didn't invest much when it came to socials, so don't expect big big numbers 😝

Let's dive into the data:

#### LinkedIn

> For our LinkedIn page, we are currently sitting at **2988** overall followers, and during 2023, we gained a total of **849** followers since 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our LinkedIn page, we are currently sitting at **2988** overall followers. During 2023, we gained a total of **849** followers.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/linkedin.webp"
/>

> We also don't use any premium or marketing services; everything you see here is 100% organic, and even though LinkedIn still has much to offer users, it is way better than the X/Twitter app, in my opinion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also don't use any premium or marketing services; everything you see here is 100% organic. Even though LinkedIn still has much to offer, it is better than the X/Twitter app.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/referred-by-LinkedIn.webp"
/>

#### X/Twitter

> I don't have much to say regarding Twitter, but on the bright side, we gained almost 1K followers since 2022, and we currently have 4.4k overall followers. When it comes to website referrals via Twitter, we have seen a decline compared to last year, 2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We gained almost 1K followers since 2022 and now have 4.4k followers. When it comes to website referrals via Twitter, we have seen a decline compared to last year, 2022.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/referred-by-Twitter.webp"
/> 

> Although the decline is shallow, I'm not extremely worried. Most top tweets for this year were appreciation tweets balanced up with technical tweets. Additionally, we don't use any paid services, and having any additional investment in this platform is not worth it, at least for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the decline is shallow, I'm not extremely worried. Most top tweets for this year were appreciation tweets balanced with technical tweets. We don't use advertising because we don't consider the X/Twitter platform worth additional investment.
```

#### YouTube

> The AsyncAPI YouTube channel performed way better than expected, especially as we moved from online to in-person conferences. We currently have over 364 people subscribed to our channel, increasing total subscribers to over 1,46k. Our live streams and conference recordings bring in a lot of views, and I'm optimistic about 2024 as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI YouTube channel performed way better than expected, especially as we moved from online to in-person conferences. We currently have over 364 people subscribed to our channel, increasing total subscribers to over 1.46k. Our live streams and conference recordings bring in a lot of views, leaving us optimistic for 2024.
```

1,46k? Remember to proofread your blog posts 😝

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/youtube.webp"
/> 

#### Newsletter

> On the 5th of April, 2023, we sent out our first AsyncAPI Community Updates Newsletter. The main aim was to summarize monthly activities and initiatives in the community straight to your inbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the 5th of April, 2023, we sent out our first AsyncAPI Community Updates Newsletter. The main aim was to summarize community monthly activities/initiatives and send them straight to your inbox.
```

> Over the past nine months, the December Edition was the most popular. This was due to the release of the AsyncAPI v3, which was one of our major accomplishments in 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the past nine months, the December Edition was the most popular due to the release of the AsyncAPI v3 (one of our major accomplishments in 2023).
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/total-opens.webp"
/> 

And, of course, I'm not exempt from unsubscribers. Although the number might seem minimal to some, it still stings as a writer.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/unsubscribed.webp"
/> 

Looking forward to sending the 2024 Editions!!🎉🎉

### Google Analytics

> The pageviews on the AsyncAPI website increased significantly over the past year. Our major contributor to these metrics comes from docs, and we expect to see more in the coming year as people want to know more about the AsyncAPI v3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI website sessions and unique users have increased significantly over the past year. Our major contributor to these metrics comes from docs, and we expect to see more in the coming year as people want to know more about the AsyncAPI v3.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/google-analytics.webp"
/> 

We also lost 21 days' worth of data during October due to a PR update that affected the analytics workflow, but we are doing well.

### Google Search Console

> Google Search Console is one of my favorite tools as it shows how much impact and interest we are gaining. Compared to 2022, we can see a surge in impressions and, slowly but surely, in clicks as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Search Console is one of my favorite tools as it shows how much impact and interest we are gaining. Compared to 2022, we can see a surge in impressions and clicks. 
```

It would be better to write more data points in the actual blog post, vs only showing images with data.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/google-console.webp"
/> 

### Github

The number of contributors in the community keeps growing, from having over **1600** contributors in 2022 to **2320** contributors in 2023. 

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/Total-Contributors.webp"
/> 

Although we have a handful of maintainers, we try our best to manage, resolve, and close issues as much as we can. Additionally, we are focusing on growing the number of maintainers in the coming years.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/Issue-History.webp"
/> 

### NPM

> Numbers don't lie, and yes, these are the total downloads of the top AsyncAPI packages hosted in the Node Package Manager. We can also see the adoption of AsyncAPI spec downloads increased from 5M to 17M since 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Numbers don't lie; yes, these are the total downloads of the top AsyncAPI packages hosted in Node Package Manager. We can also see the adoption of AsyncAPI spec downloads increased from 5M to 17M since 2022.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/NPM-packages.webp"
/> 

> So, if you are worried about the project slowing down anytime soon, we are still growing strong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are worried about the project slowing down anytime soon, we are still growing strong.
```

## Community Achievements

We achieved so much this year, and here are some of the highlights from the AsyncAPI community in 2023!

- We had our first community hire, [Thulisile Sibanda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/v-thulisile-sibanda/), to work full-time as the project's Community Manager.
- [Lukasz Gornicki](https://twitter.com/derberq) went from Community Guardian to Executive Director (boss moves right there 😂😂). And yes, he's planning to get rid of the title soon.

> - The [Ambassador Program](https://www.asyncapi.com/community/ambassadors) increased this year. 

Reviewer: How many? what number did we have last year?

- We launched the AsyncAPI Community Updates newsletter.
- Released the [Parser-JS v2](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js).

> - We launched the [AsyncAPI Bounty Program](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/897/files#diff-25ecb20a61754c225d6511ca08d7e7c9a14b9ca5a93e89bd42331e51c9ebf26dR155), where we successfully resolved and paid out a total of 11 out of 16 issues during the initial trial and 2023-Q4 round.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We launched the [AsyncAPI Bounty Program](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/897/files#diff-25ecb20a61754c225d6511ca08d7e7c9a14b9ca5a93e89bd42331e51c9ebf26dR155), where we successfully resolved and paid out a total of 11 out of 16 issues during the initial trial and 2023 Q4 round.
```

> - Established our very first [Code of Conduct Committee](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/682#discussioncomment-7498209).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Established our first [AsyncAPI Code of Conduct Committee](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/682#discussioncomment-7498209).
```

> - Hosted a few series of live streams with other women in tech.

Reviewer: Doesn't sound that unique? Perhaps highlight why this is a new occurrence for our community or what makes the guests invited newsworthy. WiT talks are commonly done everywhere, so unless we're specific, this doesn’t seem to make sense to include in a 2023 annual review.

_side note: It would be nice to link to one or more talks so community members know how to find these 😸_

> - Barbaño González shared a detailed article on [Why Women Are Underrepresentation In Open-Source](https://thenewstack.io/why-women-are-underrepresented-in-open-source/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Barbaño González shared a detailed article on [Why Women Are Underrepresented In Open-Source](https://thenewstack.io/why-women-are-underrepresented-in-open-source/).
```

> - Participated in [GSoC'23](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/997) and [GSoD'23](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/961) and kickstarted the [AsyncAPI Mentorship Program II](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/tree/master/mentorship/asyncapi-mentorship/2023).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Participated in [GSoC'23](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/997) and [GSoD'23](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/961), while kickstarting the [AsyncAPI Mentorship Program II](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/tree/master/mentorship/asyncapi-mentorship/2023).
```

> - Held our first in-person [AsyncAPI Conference on Tour](https://conference.asyncapi.com/) in four different locations.

Reviewer: Would be better to include the 4 location names, be more specific.

- Released the [AsyncAPI v3](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/release-notes-3.0.0).

> - Launch the [AsyncAPI Store](https://asyncapi-store.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Launched the [AsyncAPI Store](https://asyncapi-store.com/).
```

> This is just a glimpse of the highlights we had in 2023, and we have even more planned in 2024, which you can learn about in our [AsyncAPI Community Building Goals 2024](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/948). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope you enjoyed a glimpse into our 2023 highlights; we have even more planned for 2024! Learn about our [2024 AsyncAPI Community Building Goals](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/948). 
```

Let's dive into the data:

#### LinkedIn

For our LinkedIn page, we are currently sitting at **2988** overall followers, and during 2023, we gained a total of **849** followers since 2022.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/linkedin.webp"
/>

We also don't use any premium or marketing services; everything you see here is 100% organic, and even though LinkedIn still has much to offer users, it is way better than the X/Twitter app, in my opinion.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/referred-by-LinkedIn.webp"
/>

#### X/Twitter

I don't have much to say regarding Twitter, but on the bright side, we gained almost 1K followers since 2022, and we currently have 4.4k overall followers. When it comes to website referrals via Twitter, we have seen a decline compared to last year, 2022

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/referred-by-Twitter.webp"
/> 

Although the decline is shallow, I'm not extremely worried. Most top tweets for this year were appreciation tweets balanced up with technical tweets. Additionally, we don't use any paid services, and having any additional investment in this platform is not worth it, at least for now.

> #### YouTube

Reviewer 2: super nice to see we are not loosing much because we moved from online to in-person

can you also include info on how many subscribers we have and how many joined this year?

The AsyncAPI YouTube channel performed way better than expected, especially as we moved from online to in-person conferences. Our live streams and conference recordings bring in a lot of views, and I'm optimistic about 2024 as well.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/youtube.webp"
/> 

#### Newsletter
On the 5th of April, 2023, we sent out our first AsyncAPI Community Updates Newsletter. The main aim was to summarize monthly activities and initiatives in the community straight to your inbox.

<Figure

>   src="/img/posts/2023-summary/success-sent.webp"

Reviewer 2: why is this diagram important, what do we learn from it

it is useful to know how many subscribers read newsletter - it means you had a great idea to do it
it is useful to see unsubscribers - it means your newsletters are not pushing people away

but what do we learn from the first diagram? especially that I was worried first that "what? we sent 1.6k emails"? 😄 

also would be good to learn like in case of social media, how many people land on asyncapi.com after reading newsletter

Author: > also would be good to learn like in case of social media, how many people land on asyncapi.com after reading newsletter

sheesh well the thing is I didnt connect google analytics to mailchimp

Reviewer 2: you do not have to do anything in mailchimp
just remember next time, whenever you put asyncapi.com link in there, is should also have a standard tracking parameters

example: you want to link to https://asyncapi.com/blog/2023-summary then your link should look like https://asyncapi.com/blog/2023-summary?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=january

this way later in GA you will be able to filter and see, how many `newsletter` visits you had and also have a per newsletter view basing on `utm_campaign`

/> 

Out of over 1.6k successful emails sent over the last nine months, the December Edition was the most popular. The reason is that that was when we released the AsyncAPI v3, one of our huge accomplishments in 2023.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/total-opens.webp"
/> 

And, of course, I'm not exempt from unsubscribers. Although the number might seem minimal to some, it still stings as a writer.

<Figure

>   src="/img/posts/2023-summary/unsubscribed.webp"

Reviewer 2: don't worry, it is better to see people unsubscribe than having a huge number of subscribers and not many people opening emails

Author: thats true

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/Issue-History.webp"
/> 

### NPM

Numbers don't lie, and yes, these are the total downloads of the top AsyncAPI packages hosted in the Node Package Manager. We can also see the adoption of AsyncAPI spec downloads increased from 5M to 17M since 2022.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2023-summary/NPM-packages.webp"
/> 

So, if you are worried about the project slowing down anytime soon, we are still growing strong.

## Community Achievements

We achieved so much this year, and here are some of the highlights from the AsyncAPI community in 2023!

- We had our first community hire, [Thulisile Sibanda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/v-thulisile-sibanda/), to work full-time as the project's Community Manager.
- [Lukasz Gornicki](https://twitter.com/derberq) went from Community Guardian to Executive Director (boss moves right there 😂😂). And yes, he's planning to get rid of the title soon.
- The [Ambassador Program](https://www.asyncapi.com/community/ambassadors) increased this year. 
- We launched the AsyncAPI Community Updates newsletter.
- Released the [Parser-JS v2](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js).

> - Launched the AsyncAPI Bounty Program.

Reviewer 2: maybe in one sentence you can mention how much issues we already resolved thanks to it, and link to PR with bounty rules?
